No. There had to be an explanation; there had to be mechanics explaining the advent of a seemingly Mormon world. Beck would find it–Beck would explain it. Together with the best brains he knew, Beck would come to predict it.
What were the common denominators? Beck’s mind raced; he needed space, a place to think, alone. Pacing to keep up with his racing thoughts, he wandered off across Redwood toward Cottonwood Dog Park, Lucipurr wandering curiously behind.
Finding himself by the collapsed, Jordan River overpass, Beck found himself nestled between some of the rubble, Finally, some peace and quiet, he pulled out his tablet, now running at 50% charge, and he began his notes.
“The nine hells is this?” preceded a blast of overwhelming heat.
A lifetime of aching for womanhood, secret purchases of woman’s clothing, and daily confusion, then frustration suppressed into nearly unconscious pain, at his masculine body.
Years spent in an endless cycle, secretly wearing women’s underwear, a quiet, powerful sense of confidence & elation would glow from somewhere within, followed almost immediately by an overwhelming whirlwind of shame & confusion. Each time, he had snuck out in the dark to throw them in a neighbor’s trash only hours before the garbage truck came by–never the same neighbor, never the same bag. Yes, he’d worn gloves in the ridiculous case someone tried to fingerprint the garbage bag with panties.
Had he always known? Yes. Had he known he’d known? No. Like a flower waiting until Spring, the knowledge had cast roots, peaked through the topsoil, and at long last, it, and she, could blossom together.
Even as she thought this, she felt her frame shift, weight lowering to hips straining at her already tight jeans, slimmer shoulders fitting more comfortably in the small nook she’d nestled herself into, skin softening along with her expression. Falling back into her body, she wrote “woman when alone, man when not.”
A hellspawn squirrel had appeared–How? Why? From where?
Then a miracle. Seemingly by her faith alone, Reina had healed her son, then every victim in the infirma–Becky bolted upright, pen struggling to keep up with the pieces falling together.
Fe. Faith. Belief. Healed by faith. Of course Utah’s earthquake fissure would be bottomless–it could be nothing but the gates of Hell. Of course hellspawn would rise from the pits of Hell. Of course Reina would heal her son with the strength of a faith concentrated through decades of turmoil.
But gender? Sex? Then again, what was gender identity if not faith? Heart beating with excitement, Becky’s thoughts raced so quickly her pen could not keep up as every piece fell into its perfectly-carved place.
Of course she would manifest womanhood, the faith that had pressed against her chest, against her soul, knocking, waiting for the final frost, waiting to bloom.
With a tectonic shift of paradigm, Becky's metaphysical world shattered, observations echoing across everything she thought she knew.
Faith had caused the quake.
Faith could create matter, could create energy, could create the world.
Quickly, shocked at her own confidence, laughing in incredulity, she scribbled:
e = mc2β